not everything arbitrary you know is an
injustice but I think it's it's really
inevitable that people feel a sense of
injustice about this thing
this is not couples therapy we have the
completely objective and unbiased
therapist of the the camera observing us
without comment taking notes very
fastidiously and then we can we can
watch the video later right this is our
second video talking about jealousy so
if you can watch the channel for a while
you know the jealousy is not a problem
for me and yet it's a big problem in
this relationship
jealousy is not just about physical
appearance it's not just about beauty
handsomeness etc you know I used to get
hate mail all the time suggesting that I
was jealous of my ex-wife because she
had a PhD and I didn't wow you are so
barking up the wrong tree right now well
I've known many people who got PhDs and
I've known many people during the
process of getting a PhD and I know
exactly how arbitrary those decisions
are look I know how arbitrary it was
that my ex-wife ended up in the ph.d
program she did with the supervisor she
did I know exactly how much suffering
was involved in the process of her
getting the PhD I know kind of exactly
how little educational content there was
or how how poor how low-quality her
educational experience was I know how
disappointed she was you know its
various stages of that and you know it
was this Cambridge Cambridge University
England and I know at the end of it she
had this sense of shame with the
contrast between the public expectation
of what it means to have a PhD from
Cambridge University and the reality of
what her experience was and now beyond
that again she's not unique I've known
many people in many different fields
with this this kind of experience
mutatis mutandis and I've seen how they
cope with it psychologically and so on
being excluded from certain
opportunities arbitrarily you know it's
sad I mean I can look at how arbitrary
it was that I didn't have better
opportunities mostly just because I'm a
Canadian citizen I'm not a German
citizen or a French citizen or a British
citizen or even an American citizen I'm
a prisoner of my passport especially
when it comes to academic opportunities
but when I look at that I can just feel
sad about it right l I don't I don't
feel jealousy you know and I can look at
the experience that my ex-wife had or
many other people on you who went
through PhD programs I can look at the
experiences they had
um I can feel happy for them I mean it's
actually it's very rare that they had
paused the experience but when they did
when they had a great experience that a
PhD and they're really happy but I can
feel happy for them and you know on the
other hand of course more often I can
feel sad for them also I can really
relate to what it was they were they
were struggling with before after
enduring getting that PhD the kind of
question his appointment
not everything arbitrary you know is an
injustice but I think it's it's really
inevitable that people feel a sense of
injustice about this thing i honest I
don't think it's your main problem maybe
I'm wrong maybe it is I worked in an
office
I had a government job in Laos I worked
for the the Lotion government it's a
communist country so the majority of
people around me are Communist Party
officials and there was one woman white
woman from Australia who was there in
the same office and her salary was being
paid by Australian by an Australian
charity and she was such a sour and
bitter character and it was illegal but
she was sleeping with a lotion guy she
had a love affair with her which is
illegal by the way he at that time I
doubt they've changed the law it was
illegal for foreigner to have a romance
with a local person and a lot of people
were breaking those laws of course but
it was a very interesting kind of dance
because then once you're breaking that
law the authorities know they can they
can extort you they can blackmail you
they can ask for ya they can say well if
you don't want us to charge you with
this you know yes that's right yes yeah
yeah she was just such a really vicious
and and jealous person jealousy was the
room and she was jealous of me that was
ultimately the drama that tore apart the
work situation she was jealous of me
because she imagined I was making way
more money than she was and I wasn't
she's this vindictive horrible jealous
character and then one day
her sister came to visit and her sister
was gorgeous yeah and she walks into the
office did it all make sense then no but
neither would she look you see her
sister was so good-looking you guys you
got the good DNA and I didn't and it's
arbitrary right yeah it's not it's not
random but it's arbitrary and you know
her sister wasn't wearing a fancy outfit
or anything sister was wearing dumpy
backpacker I think she literally had a
backpack on a blue jeans yeah from the
minute her sister walks into the room
everyone men and women it was a big it
was a big office big government office
everyone stands up and turns around
looking at this woman she watch their
own he's she's striking whoa and you
know I've seen a lot of white people
walk in there it's not trust me
you know it's men and women we'd seen
we've seen different different people
walk in so this was you know she so what
I mean one of them was lucky and one of
them was unlucky in that respect right
yeah now you know but it's not a good
look that's thank you to be jealous to
be the jealous type right and I know
that I even before I got together with
you I had a lot of experience with a
jealous partner
yeah and being also a jealous partner
even though it's not like there were
women knocking on my ex-boyfriends door
but you know there were incidents and
also he tried to basically prevent me
from having any close friends close male
friends which for me was hard because I
have always just like gravitated more
towards having male friends and I think
it's just because I grew up with
brothers so really once I got to
University and I started this
relationship all your friends so it kind
of I had no friends I kind of forgot
that about you but no that's true that's
also part of your current situation was
that it was hard or feet of female
friends no friends yeah
may also be because of jealousy a lot of
women I have a lot that this is a huge
problem for me so there's a lot to talk
when I want I want to poke in one more
definition if your sister is gorgeous
that doesn't take anything away from you
right no that's the mr. stris she didn't
subtract something from me right look
when you're competing over finite
resources like you know there's only the
budget locate we're at every university
there's only so much budget for research
and now we're gonna decide how much
money goes to this person how much money
gets that for how we're gonna cut the
pie some things are fine it oh well
because of you I have less that's
different it doesn't take anything away
from me for her to be more beautiful
right now my ex-wife's education piques
the PhD he doesn't take anything away
from me for her to succeed for her to
have that PhD right so again like you
know what is what is jealousy um you
know one way to look at it is Miss
apprehending everything arbitrary as an
injustice but then to maybe on a really
child childish level of the brain miss
miss a pretending the fact that you have
something as being the reason for me
lacking it or me having less bless the
night than I could have in some sense
yes absolutely part of why I struggle
with this is because I know how shallow
and selfish it is of me to even be
jealous of other people and you've
mentioned this being a problem for me
not being able to just be happy for you
like I mean yeah this is our version of
couples therapy so I'm going to talk
about us talk about it in a way that is
just donors what actually happens you
know I want you to have friends I want
you to talk to people and you're honest
with me when you do
meet somebody that does not mean
somebody but you know with how the
Internet is you can start talking to
someone on some and you always tell me
and I know you're a virtuous good person
and you're honest with me you do me and
I have no reason to like be worried
because we've we've talked this so much
but when you told me that you had been
messaging an attractive young woman
I couldn't stop this feeling even though
it's like something I rationalized so
much and we've talked about so often and
it's so often that I've like embarrassed
but I you know you say that that and
that's happened throughout the
relationship yeah including at the very
beginning and including what I'm talking
to someone I've already known for years
like someone I knew before we started
dating and so just just to give a little
bit of context I don't know how much of
this is going to replace the recording
that we made yesterday or if it's just
you mentioned using philosophy as a way
to get better or you know become more
virtuous and I really do want to but you
are also true you are so telling the
truth when you say that I lack virtues I
say virtues say that I have virtues that
I don't actually have I be able to talk
about these things in it down earth way
with you and I'm able to think about
jealousy and what it really is right but
then there's there's the actual feeling
the actual reaction isn't versus yeah
emotion and reaction versus being able
to think about it philosophically and
you mentioned you know this verges on
the point of being psychopathy you know
being something that is some kind of
mental disorder and I do wonder because
my first introduction of knowing about
jealousy and my family is my grandmother
she was a very very jealous person she
was married to her husband who was my
grandfather and he would work
Ford Motor Company Ford plant and she
wouldn't allow him to go out to lunch
with his coworkers I've heard a lot
about his grandmother that particularly
ever good yeah
he didn't she didn't want him to go to a
diner and see a pretty waitress and be
thinking about the pretty waitress so
she would you know pack a lunch from and
he would she insisted that he eat in the
factory yeah
whether he whether he obeyed or not she
didn't know I mean I don't know he
probably did go out to dinner but this
was at a time that my father was growing
up when televisions were becoming
everywhere in every home but she refused
to have a boob tube in the house because
she didn't want right her husband seeing
beautiful women on television and also
even like things that seemed so um like
what wore the soft core like Kohl's
catalogs or like I was feeling I was
told she'd go through the junk mail and
she'd destroy anything that had a
picture of a model she'd go through the
TV Guide and take out pictures beautiful
women and stuff consumed this way yes I
knew so Melissa's one of my
ex-girlfriends yeah her mother was a
nurse and as their marriage progressed
her father would not let her mother work
because of basically the kind of
flirtation and casual socializing that
happens at a hospital yeah and I don't
know I don't know if that was more
jealousy towards the patients or towards
the other members of staff like doctors
and male nurses or whatever but it's
roofs but that to me at the time that
was that was kind of an unbelievably
shocking an extreme form of jealousy
it's like know what even you've ever
results in the whole family being
significantly poor you do to ask her to
cancel her career and yeah she really
had nothing to do anyone yeah well I
think you're right to like if I took a
videotape of some of the things that
I've
said to you yes I would be really
shocked and say like this is somebody
who's like filled with rage over like
something yes I think we should go back
to that so real quickly so you said a
little bit vaguely
I start talking to someone on the
internet he's an attractive woman right
yeah and again throughout the relation
as a whole this is someone's included
people I've already known for years but
it can be someone on me first time or
whatever yeah and it doesn't mean I'm
meeting them because they're attractive
by the way you know what have you and
sometimes it's completely your
imagination sometimes you you have no
idea what the person looks like even
most of the time you just know like I
mean oh I'm sorry but you why not go
ahead yeah I know situations where you
you literally you have like all you know
is a screen name
you know like you just know this is a
female who is talking to me or that I'm
that I'm talking to right so and then I
mean I think you say kind of really
vaguely that you react jealously but
like that's included you like like
screaming at me like screaming at the
top of your as you your voice isn't that
left foot screaming as loud as you can
scream it's included like hysterical
weeping and like really being that wound
up I'm yes
crazy [ __ ] Melissa like crazy yeah I'm
sincere about that like I realize and
recognize that yeah this is a problem
and it's been a problem